Template-Sandbox

Template-Sandbox is Yet Another Templating module, designed primarily
for use in a webserver environment, providing a more secure "sandboxed"
environment than most templating systems.


WHY WRITE ANOTHER TEMPLATING SYSTEM?

There's a wide range of templating systems for perl, it's almost a
rite of passage for web developers of a certain inclination to write
their own rather than reuse an existing system, so why did I feel the
need to release yet another to CPAN despite the glut already there?

The primary reason is that no other template system on CPAN provided
the right mix of segregated behaviour to suit my overly-paranoid mind,
many blithely provide direct access to perl's variable namespace,
others do the same for access to perl core functions.

Whilst this can certainly be convenient it's also, for my purposes,
too excessively trusting for comfort.

The core purpose of Template::Sandbox is that a template has no access
to anything outside the template that you don't explictly grant access
to.

This means that your application data-structures remain private to
the application layer, with only the data-model you choose to expose
being available to the template: think of it this way, you can't
accidentally publish password data in a debug comment in your login
page if the template system simply CANNOT see the password data.

Likewise, you don't have to worry about a junior webdesigner, who
knows no better, embedding some deeply unsafe system() function call
in your homepage just because their line-manager is screaming for
them to display a "last modified" tag and they don't want to bother
the devs.

Some of this could undoubtably have been achieved over other
templating systems, but it suited my purpose to write one from
scratch rather than trying to cut-down the behaviour of other
modules and be uncertain whether I'd covered all angles.

Template::Sandbox also provides the usual gamut of behaviours and
optional feature: caching compiled templates, subclassable behaviour
(encouraged even), cascading search paths, includes, flow control,
embedded expressions, and useful debugging information in case of
errors.


INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

	perl Build.PL
	./Build
	./Build test
	./Build install

SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the
perldoc command.

    perldoc Template::Sandbox

You can also look for information at:

    RT, CPAN's request tracker
        http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Template-Sandbox

    AnnoCPAN, Annotated CPAN documentation
        http://annocpan.org/dist/Template-Sandbox

    CPAN Ratings
        http://cpanratings.perl.org/d/Template-Sandbox

    Search CPAN
        http://search.cpan.org/dist/Template-Sandbox


COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Sam Graham

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

